README.md, before:

# Mini Hacker News

This project is a mini version of the Hacker News website, built with Angular for the frontend, Java for the backend, and MongoDB for the database. The project is containerized using Docker.

## Exploring New Technologies

Before starting this project, I hadn't had the chance to work with these technologies. However, I saw it as an opportunity to expand my skillset and gain experience with popular tools in the industry.

By investing time in learning and experimenting with Spring, Docker, and MongoDB, I have been able to enhance my career prospects and stay up-to-date with the latest industry trends. It has been a rewarding journey of exploring new technologies and discovering their potential.

## Running the Project

1. Ensure Docker is installed on your system.
2. Navigate to the project directory.
3. Run the following command:

```sh
docker-compose up
```

This command will start all services defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file, including the Angular frontend, Java backend, and MongoDB database.

The client-side application will be accessible at [http://localhost:4400](http://localhost:4400). The server-side application will be running at `http://localhost:8080`. The database can be accessed at `http://localhost:27017`.

## Post Score Calculation and Caching

The score of a post in Mini Hacker News is determined by a combination of the post's votes and its creation time. This score is used to order the posts on the "Top Posts" page, which is requested thousands of times per second.

### Score Calculation

Each post's score is calculated by summing the value of each vote divided by the age of the vote in seconds. This calculation is performed in the `updateScore` method of the `Post` class:

```java
this.score = this.getVotes().stream().mapToDouble(vote -> {
  return vote.getScore(this);
}).sum();
```

### Chacing

Given the high frequency of requests to the "Top Posts" page and the potentially large number of posts in the database, efficiency is critical. To optimize performance, the calculated score of each post is stored in a cache. If the score is already cached and the 'force' flag is false, the cached score is used instead of recalculating the score:

```java
if (!force && scoreCache.containsKey(this.getId())) {
  this.score = scoreCache.get(this.getId());
} else {
  // score calculation...
  scoreCache.put(this.getId(), this.score);
}
```

This caching mechanism significantly reduces the computational load of score calculation, especially when the "Top Posts" page is being requested frequently.

# RESTful API Endpoints

The application provides several RESTful API endpoints for interacting with the Mini Hacker News system. Here's a brief overview of each endpoint:

## Post Management

#### `GET /api/posts`

- **Purpose:** Fetch all posts from the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** None.
- **Response Format:** A JSON array of posts.

#### `POST /api/posts`

- **Purpose:** Create a new post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** A JSON object containing `text` property.
- **Response Format:** The created post as a JSON object.

#### `PUT /api/posts/{id}`

- **Purpose:** Update a specific post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** The ID of the post as a path parameter, and a JSON object containing `text` property.
- **Response Format:** The updated post as a JSON object.

#### `POST /api/posts/{id}/delete`

- **Purpose:** Delete a specific post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** The ID of the post as a path parameter.
- **Response Format:** No content (HTTP 204 status code) on successful deletion.

## Post Voting

#### `POST /api/posts/{id}/upvote`

- **Purpose:** Upvote a specific post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** The ID of the post as a path parameter.
- **Response Format:** The upvoted post as a JSON object.

#### `POST /api/posts/{id}/downvote`

- **Purpose:** Downvote a specific post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** The ID of the post as a path parameter.
- **Response Format:** The downvoted post as a JSON object.

## Post Retrieval

#### `GET /api/posts/top`

- **Purpose:** Fetch the top posts from the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** An optional query parameter `limit` that defaults to 10 if not provided.
- **Response Format:** A JSON array of the top posts.

#### `GET /api/posts/new`

- **Purpose:** Fetch the newest posts from the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** An optional query parameter `limit` that defaults to 10 if not provided.
- **Response Format:** A JSON array of the newest posts.

Commit message:

fix README and add More To Be Done section

README.md, after:

# Mini Hacker News

This project is a mini version of the Hacker News website, built with Angular for the frontend, Java for the backend, and MongoDB for the database. The project is containerized using Docker.

## Exploring New Technologies

Before starting this project, I hadn't had the chance to work with these technologies. However, I saw it as an opportunity to expand my skillset and gain experience with popular tools in the industry.

By investing time in learning and experimenting with Spring, Docker, and MongoDB, I have been able to enhance my career prospects and stay up-to-date with the latest industry trends. It has been a rewarding journey of exploring new technologies and discovering their potential.

## Running the Project

1. Ensure Docker is installed on your system.
2. Navigate to the project directory.
3. Run the following command:

```sh
docker-compose up
```

This command will start all services defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file, including the Angular frontend, Java backend, and MongoDB database.

The client-side application will be accessible at [http://localhost:4400](http://localhost:4400). The server-side application will be running at `http://localhost:8080`. The database can be accessed at `http://localhost:27017`.

## Post Score Calculation and Caching

The score of a post in Mini Hacker News is determined by a combination of the post's votes and its creation time. This score is used to order the posts on the "Top Posts" page, which is requested thousands of times per second.

### Score Calculation

Each post's score is calculated by summing the value of each vote divided by the age of the vote in seconds. This calculation is performed in the `updateScore` method of the `Post` class:

```java
this.score = this.getVotes().stream().mapToDouble(vote -> {
  return vote.getScore(this);
}).sum();
```

### Chacing

Given the high frequency of requests to the "Top Posts" page and the potentially large number of posts in the database, efficiency is critical. To optimize performance, the calculated score of each post is stored in a cache. If the score is already cached and the 'force' flag is false, the cached score is used instead of recalculating the score:

```java
if (!force && scoreCache.containsKey(this.getId())) {
  this.score = scoreCache.get(this.getId());
} else {
  // score calculation...
  scoreCache.put(this.getId(), this.score);
}
```

This caching mechanism significantly reduces the computational load of score calculation, especially when the "Top Posts" page is being requested frequently.

## RESTful API Endpoints

The application provides several RESTful API endpoints for interacting with the Mini Hacker News system. Here's a brief overview of each endpoint:

### Post Management

#### `GET /api/posts`

- **Purpose:** Fetch all posts from the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** None.
- **Response Format:** A JSON array of posts.

#### `POST /api/posts`

- **Purpose:** Create a new post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** A JSON object containing `text` property.
- **Response Format:** The created post as a JSON object.

#### `PUT /api/posts/{id}`

- **Purpose:** Update a specific post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** The ID of the post as a path parameter, and a JSON object containing `text` property.
- **Response Format:** The updated post as a JSON object.

#### `POST /api/posts/{id}/delete`

- **Purpose:** Delete a specific post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** The ID of the post as a path parameter.
- **Response Format:** No content (HTTP 204 status code) on successful deletion.

### Post Voting

#### `POST /api/posts/{id}/upvote`

- **Purpose:** Upvote a specific post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** The ID of the post as a path parameter.
- **Response Format:** The upvoted post as a JSON object.

#### `POST /api/posts/{id}/downvote`

- **Purpose:** Downvote a specific post in the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** The ID of the post as a path parameter.
- **Response Format:** The downvoted post as a JSON object.

### Post Retrieval

#### `GET /api/posts/top`

- **Purpose:** Fetch the top posts from the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** An optional query parameter `limit` that defaults to 10 if not provided.
- **Response Format:** A JSON array of the top posts.

#### `GET /api/posts/new`

- **Purpose:** Fetch the newest posts from the database.
- **Expected Input Parameters:** An optional query parameter `limit` that defaults to 10 if not provided.
- **Response Format:** A JSON array of the newest posts.

## More To Be Done

If I had more time, there are several areas I would focus on to further enhance the Mini Hacker News project:

- _User Authentication and Authorization:_ Implementing a robust user authentication and authorization system would allow users to create accounts, log in, and perform actions such as posting, voting, and commenting. This would enhance the overall user experience and add an extra layer of security to the application.

- _Commenting System:_ Adding a commenting system to the posts would enable users to engage in discussions and share their thoughts on specific topics. This feature would enhance the interactivity of the application and foster a sense of community among users.

- _Sorting and Filtering:_ Implementing sorting and filtering options for the posts would allow users to customize their viewing experience. They could sort posts by popularity, date, or other criteria, and filter posts based on specific categories or tags. This would provide users with more control over the content they see and improve the usability of the application.

- _Pagination:_ As the number of posts grows, implementing pagination would improve the performance and load times of the application. By dividing the posts into smaller chunks and loading them dynamically, users would experience faster page loads and smoother navigation through the posts.

- _Error Handling and Validation:_ Enhancing the error handling and validation mechanisms would ensure that the application handles unexpected scenarios gracefully and provides meaningful feedback to users. This would involve implementing proper error messages, input validation, and error logging to help diagnose and resolve issues effectively.

- _Unit Testing and Test Coverage:_ Writing comprehensive unit tests for the backend and frontend components would ensure the stability and reliability of the application. By covering different scenarios and edge cases, unit tests would help identify and fix bugs early in the development process.

By focusing on these areas, the Mini Hacker News project would become more feature-rich, user-friendly, and robust. It would provide a solid foundation for further expansion and improvement based on user feedback and evolving requirements.
